The coordinators invite abstracts from scholars and practitioners involved in the designing, execution, and teaching of reading- and writing-oriented courses in STEMM. Scholars and practitioners who are interested in the topic but have not designed, executed or taught such courses are also welcome to contribute abstracts, although the coordinators will prioritize the former while selecting abstracts.

Potential contributions might address the following themes. This is an indicative list, and the coordinators welcome abstracts discussing other important aspects of teaching reading and writing in STEMM institutions/disciplines that are not mentioned in the list below.

- **Curricular and pedagogical reflections on teaching reading and/or writing in STEMM**: If you have taught a reading-writing course in STEMM, what are the curricular and pedagogical choices you made while designing and executing your course? What frameworks and intentions guided these choices? What were the challenges and successes of the course?
- **Sketching the STEMM reading-writing teacher**: Who is the STEMM reading-writing teacher in an Indian context? What makes them take up the teaching of reading and writing in lieu of or in addition to teaching courses in domains of their disciplinary expertise? Do gender, caste, class, sexuality, ability, etc. contribute to who takes up the role of teaching reading-writing in STEMM? What is the relationship of the STEMM reading-writing teacher with ideas of merit, scientific ability, and science identity?
- **Uses and abuses of generative AI**
How has the growth of generative AI technologies changed reading-writing practices in STEMM? What are the challenges and possibilities that the generative AI boom opens up in the context of teaching reading-writing in STEMM?
- **Role of reading-writing in domain-specific STEMM knowledge**: Are reading-writing only secondary activities in STEMM contexts, or can the teaching of reading-writing also precipitate better engagement with disciplinary knowledge?
- **Interdisciplinary reflections**: What disciplines have a stake in the teaching of reading-writing in STEMM? What is the role, if any, of a STEMM training in the teaching of reading-writing in STEMM?
- **Frameworks for developing reading-writing curricula for STEMM disciplines in India**: What are the key factors that one must account for while designing STEMM-specific reading-writing courses? What should be the curricular and pedagogical approaches that such courses must adopt? How are STEMM-specific reading-writing courses different from such courses in other disciplines?
- **Empirical investigations into reading and writing in STEMM**: If you have conducted a qualitative or quantitative study of how STEMM learners and practitioners read and write, what did you find? How can your findings catalyze more effective STEMM reading-writing courses?
